[Music]
you
hello friends in today's lecture we will
introduce a new topic which is called
memory so continuing from what we
learned in the last classes perception
attention the next step into any
cognitive process is memory so what is
memory I have given definition of it not
kind of a definition but I I have given
what memory comprise off in the title of
this slide so it says memory is
something which is equivalent to knowing
something or you may bring them
something and this is very cleverly put
here because one of the debates in
memory is something called know or
remember debate which is debate about
how long-term memory stores things or
what is the way in which long-term
memory processes information so what is
memory before we go into explaining what
memory is I have some funny cartoons
here for you to look at which will give
you some idea or which will slightly
entertain you and understanding what
memories and so you can see on the right
hand of your slide a person who was into
a chamber of a therapist and therapist
asks something about this therapist is
doing psychotherapy so he asked
something about whether he remember the
person
who's the patient remembers a therapist
or not and the patient denies it and the
therapy is only worry is whether he
remembers the therapist because if he
doesn't remember the therapist and no
amount of money is what comes out of the
pocket of the person and the therapy
which basically means that the therapist
doesn't get paid and so in a very brief
way this is what memory and compresses
off on the right hand side you see
another interesting figure interesting
cartoon which tells you a little bit
about what memory is and so this is a
demonstration of the famous remember no
paradigm by and will tell me and what
this is is that the the person in
question is asking the cat whether the
cat remembers what she saw was a mouse
or whether she knows what she was there
it was a mouse or not and so there's
distinction between remembering and
knowing something and remembering
something is a famous debate in memory
studies and will take up this debate
when we come to the section on long-term
memory so let's start with understanding
what memory is so let me put a question
to you do you remember the last ball
which was hit for a six in the 2011
Cricket World Cup and as soon as I put
this question to you most people do
remember because it was a proud movement
for India India won the World Cup in
cricket in 2011 and the last ball was
Mahendra Singh Dhoni hitting a six to
win the World Cup and so when when I ask
you this question many information comes
in front of you like the process that
I'm doing right now when I am trying to
tell you what happened on that day is
actually memory so mostly the way we
look at memory the
we most laypersons look at memory the
concept of memory is about retrieval so
memory is a process of the travel and
when we say do you remember something or
do you think you know something these
are all facts about memory so then the
main idea about memory or the main the
main feature of memory is retrieval so
how do we define memory now think about
the first day you came to your present
college wherever you're studying you
came to the college you made a lot of
new friends you did a lot of things and
when I asked you to remember the first
day that you came to your college
several experiences will be competing
with each other to come to your
consciousness to come to your mind and
these ideas are these facts which are
competing with each other as what is
called memory and so memory is that
particular thing or memory is that
particular feature of cognition which
brings to mind or which focuses on or
puts into consciousness information
which has been learned before and the
information that has been learned before
has passed has already passed to two
important cognitive stages which is the
first stage of perception where
information is coded on or information
is processed from raw stimuli to the
to the process of sensation and
perception and the next stage where
attention
another cognitive process is applied on
to the drawing information which comes
up to perception and then whatever is to
be remembered at whatever has to be
stored is put onto the focus so then
memory is the process of basically
storing something and do it driving it
so we've because before you retrieve
something it has to be stored somewhere
and so another dimension or another fact
that can be added to memory is the
storage fat so basically speaking then
memory in general layman's term is a
process of storing something retrieving
something and we add one more feature to
it which is basically called to process
something so basically encoding
something storing something and
retrieving it back is what is called
memory in very generic terms so the
definition in a slide would say that it
is memory is a most basic process which
is used in our daily life right from the
time that you wake up to the time that
you go to bed you do a lot of things you
undergo a lot of acts then they take a
lot of work and most of this work
requires you to access information from
your mental storage and this meant to
storage the process of storing and
forces of retrieving information from
your mental storage is what is called
memory now the question is why is memory
needed so as we saw memory is a
three-part process it starts with
encoding at least to storage and it
further leads to something called
retrieval of information from the store
value where people store it so why is
memory needed at all what is the reason
why memory is needed and so the
appreciation of memory the real regard
for memory will not come to anyone until
then unless he sees someone or a person
see someone who has no memory and so
people who don't have memory are called
M Enix so you have something called
amnesia or disorder of memory where
people cannot or are not able to
remember anything and there are two
kinds of Emin easier to look at one is
called retrograde and another is called
antegrade in which most of these
ammonia's 4mn eazy-e's focus on the fact
that in one of it you people are not
able to form present memories which
basically means they are not able to
form memories of whatever is happening
right now and in retrograde happening
there are people not able to retrieve
memory from the mental store so in one
case there is an encoding failure so
people are not able to form memory in
other case they are not able to retrieve
memory and so until and unless you come
or you see a person who has no memory
the appreciation of memory is very
difficult I'm saying this because memory
is something which most people take for
granted it is there and so we don't
appreciate it any more till the point of
time that it goes away and so a
beautiful case study is defined by alan
bradley of a person called life-bearing
who had no STM no short-term memory we
basically mean that he had a type of
amnesia in which this person was not
able to form memory off to encode
something new and so this person some
means yeah well Bradley goes on to say
it was so dense that even if you talk to
this person even if you're talking to
this person he will talk to you for two
minutes and within two minutes he will
forget you so think of a life of a
person where this / where anybody cannot
remember you or cannot remember any
information for more than two or three
minutes
it is really hell of a life because it
will be very difficult to live a life
like that because what would happen is
that you wouldn't be able to
generate you won't be able to encode or
you won't be able to store something new
and this person had a kind of amnesia
where he where the initial memory or the
present memory could not be encoded so
if questions were asked to him we put to
him about facts which were prior to the
phase when he suffered this ebenezer so
his amnesia developed because of
accident so those facts or those
information which was stored which he
was aware of before his accidents they
were perfectly intact but he was not
able to go ahead and and actually
remember something which was happening
right now
and so this particular case could be
used as a reference for what is the
highlight of memory or what is the
meaning of memory the question is what
are the various ways in which memory has
been explained by philosophers now since
psychology moved out of philosophy and a
lot of philosophers a lot of views of
philosophers are carried on to a so a
lot of philosophers have also said a lot
of things about what memory is so there
are several models there are several
definitions which have been there which
has been explained which have been used
to explain what memory is and so let's
quickly discuss some of these metaphors
or some of these models which has been
proposed by various philosophers or
various scientists working into the
science of memory and so Plato any 1988
points out that Plato wrote about memory
by comparing it to something called an
every or a wax tablet on which an
impression are made so what Plato said
is memory is like a wax tablet where you
make certain impression and when you
don't need it these impressions are
taken away or it's molded back and so
most memory is like a wax
and so you take a pen or a chisel and
heat it and make some kind of mark onto
these facts and that is what memory is
similarly in the Middle Ages several
other conceptualizations of memory were
done and some of these
conceptualizations led to the idea that
memory could also be compared to a cave
and empty cabinet a storage house and so
on and so forth so memory mostly these
studies are these viewpoints of memory
they are talking about memory as a
storage system because the tribal is a
process so retrieval accesses a storage
so when I say think about something the
process that you use the way that you
get information is what is called a
triangle but from where you get is what
is called storage part of memory and so
the memory in itself is defined in terms
of the silikal studies or in this in
terms of these old studies as a system
which stores information so basically
then the question here is whether memory
is a single store system which means
that our information stored in one
typical way or whether there are
different stores and the memory is
stored in different ways so from very
early on this philosophers knew that
there are five sense organs and since
the number of sense organs are different
is basically five all of them would
produce a different input which is not
similar to our input from another sense
organs which basically means that a
number of memory stores have to be more
than one and so that is one of the
debate that how many stores are there
and so we'll quickly come to that idea
of when how many have been defined in
terms of the storage idea also how is
memory arranged so how do you access
memory so is memory like a box which is
full of a number
fight em so think of your closet back in
your hostel now most of you would have a
disorganized closet and so what would
happen is on one particular garment the
other garment would go on and so a
number of dresses will go over it and in
the middle of it there will be books and
so many things would be there in your
closet which means that a disorganized
closet now if a disorganized closet is
there searching anything from it is
difficult so then how is memory
organized what is the way in which
memory is organized so are there ordered
structures of organizing memory or are
they under structures and so if there
are order structures how are they access
how what is stored how much information
is stored all these questions we look
into in the upcoming several weeks in
several different definitions of what
memory is and so we'll discuss it there
but for now the idea here is that people
who followed from the trends of
philosophy or people in the Middle Ages
they had this idea of cave or cabinet or
empty house kind of a thing of memory
which suggests that they thought of
memory as a storehouse now in the 1960s
and in the nineteen sixties in the
nineteen fifties particularly the
telephone came in Graham Bell has
already invented the telephone system
and so memory was then compared as to
the telephone system which was supposed
of interconnected wires from a central
node and so on in those days in the
1950s the telephone system was compared
to the memory to house one connection
leads to another connection and there is
a central node with goes ahead and makes
this connection is what memory was
thought of so different bits of
information comes from encoding and
different bits of information are a
tribe and the one area which is
connecting it is called the central node
and that is where or or it's it's it's
it's called the control center where
people or telephone operators sit and
manage telephone calls the similar way
memory is sort of similar
there is there is a central operator who
actually sits there takes in information
which which comes in from through
perception attention and this is called
the incoming call kind of a issue and
this is encoding then the telephone
operator takes this information and
whenever needed passes this information
out which is equivalent to the concept
of retrial and so this operator then
manages this information and so those
days this is how that memory was thought
of and this is how the analog II was
developed now in the 1960s the first
computers were generated and in those
days from that idea on was memory
started being thought of as a computer
system which has an input which has a
throughput and which has an output so
right from the point where it was
thought of for the cave to the
development of the telephone system to
the development of the computers the
idea of memory kept on changing from one
generation to the another generation no
in the 1670s when the first computerized
model or computer model of memory came
in a lot of information was gathered by
people working in this area and some of
the primary information that they
gathered was that there were multiple
kind of memories so for the first time
people came to know that there was
different kind of memories so even
within a particular sensory organ so I'm
not talking about whether difference as
the sensory organ brings in different
kind of memory what I'm talking here is
that within a specific sense organ also
we had different kinds of memories and
also the fact that not only there are
different kind of memories in terms of a
particular sensory organ it is also that
these memories have a particular
duration a duration for which they last
so there are certain stores or there are
certain terms for a certain kind of
memory
which lasts for a very short period of
time and then there are certain kind of
embrace which longer which are there
which are available for longer period of
time and so these kind of options are
these kinds of studies started
developing and that was the time when
memory studies the full form of my
studies came into being so with the
advent of the computers and the video
and with the additional knowledge of the
fact that memories are of different kind
and they have different time periods to
be stored they require different time
series to be stored they are accessible
for different time periods an important
breakthrough happen in the research of
memory and a model was developed which
is called the modal model of memory as
you can see now this model of memory
suggests that information which is
passed on from the perceptual processes
and through the attentional processes
these arrive at something called the
sensory register kind of a buffer where
which has a property of storing a lot of
information and from there on depending
on certain features of the sensory
register depending on certain other
mental cognitive processes these
information are passed on to another
store which is called the short-term
store and from there depending on
certain features or the short-term store
and certain active processes that has to
we take in that has to be taken up their
memory is passed on to another kind of
store which is called the long-term
story that is what it talks about so
basically a three store system was
developed which is the short term store
long term store and the sensory register
so briefly speaking then this is how
memory would look like so the model
model of memory
the modal model memory talks about a
very short store which is called the
sensory memory or some books will talk
about this tour as the sensory register
now this is a buffer store buffer store
in the sense that it has several
properties so we will look into the idea
of sensory registers sensory memory long
term a very short term memory in a while
but for now let me introduce you to the
modal model and so what it says is that
at the beginning the information which
has been coming so information which is
coming from perception and attention
land up at this sensory register now
it's a buffer as I said and it's a
buffer of a unique status why it is
unique it is unique because it can take
a lot of information it can store a lot
of information but the information
duration for which it can store
information is very very brief and so
depending on certain features here
certain processes here mostly
attentional processes mostly attention
or some person deleted factors also this
information is passed on to another
store which is called the short-term
memory we look at as I said in to most
of these models or into most of these
stores one by one and in the upcoming
lectures and so the short the short term
store does is it stores information for
a very very brief period of time
so mostly cents a day just passes on
information depending on certain
features are certain requirements and
these requirements are determined by
people's attention or intention and so
on and so forth and so this information
then passes on to something called the
short-term memory short-term memory is a
store it is like a cave it is like a box
which can store a lot of information but
this information
is very very limited because this
attention what has this attentional
filter over here has limited the number
of information which passes to the
short-term store so limited number of
information can be assessed to this
store but then the idea here is that
this information can stay here for
longer period of time it is equivalent
to remembering a phone number while
talking to a friend so that kind of a
thing and so from here there is another
store which is called the long-term
store where information can move out too
so depending on whether you repeat the
stimulus sub vocally which basically
means whether you do a rehearsal of the
stimulus so whatever information comes
from sensory register to the short-term
store whether you rehearse this
information or not whether you go ahead
and repeat this information or not that
will decide whether it goes to long-term
store or not the long-term store has a
property that can store a number of
information into it and so a number of
information for extensive period of time
so that kind of structure is what is
called a long-term store and this is the
model model of memory it is akin to or
similar to act insurance reference model
but then at keychain sniffing has
several more addition to it we'll talk
about that kitchen chef and model and
another model which is a fake and
Oakheart model in a while so let me just
introduce you these things here so there
are two models one is called a create a
low cut model and the air conditioner
shipping model now the question was
whether memory is a single store system
or a multiple store system and that was
what the debate is and that is the
debate which will be solved by that
constraint reference to model and they
can look at model so we'll come to that
can we from there so the question now is
how do we experiment ly prove that this
is right that this kind of a store
appears that this kind of a store
structure is there in memory and for
their that particular thing a number of
experiment a number of free recall
experiments
none and what was these experiments like
so in this field called experiment a
list of words were given to people so
these are number of words which are
given to people and they were asked to
remember these to learn these by heart
and later on they were asked to retrieve
this back these words back and to
basically go ahead and retrieve retrieve
or to tell me these words back or repeat
this words back to me and they don't
have to follow any sequence that is why
it is called a fini call there there is
no sequence that did they follow so
anyway even if the fact they can
remember what number 10 first and what
about at two second and so on and so
forth so they are free to recall the way
they want to the only thing here is that
they have to first learn a list and then
retrieve a list back now an interesting
thing was found out here when this
retrieval the percentage accuracy of
retrieval and this is the time dimension
when this kind of thing was plotted
something like this was found and this
basically so these are the I'm sorry
this is not the time dimension this is
the list items items of the list and so
what was found out is that this kind of
curve which is called the serial
position curve was what was evident from
the results so what is the serial poison
curve so on this axis you have the
probability of recall and this on this
axis you have the list of items which
has to be recalled and this is what you
tend to get so what does this list
actually tell you so this list basically
tells you or this kind of a graph
basically goes in and tells you that
these are items which are at the
beginning of the list
and these are items which are at the end
of the list so let's say in a 30 word
list
these are item number 30 29 28 27 and
these are items number 1 2 3 4 and 5 and
here is item number let's say 18 17 15
16 kind of a thing what's the meaning of
all this the meaning of all this is that
items present at the top of the list
those items which are presented towards
the beginning of the list are remembered
more and similarly items which have been
presented towards the end of the list I
remembered more which basically means
that these two kind of items have a
preferential or have three more better
memory why they have better memory this
kind of effect when items which have
been learned at the beginning of the
list are remembered more as called
the primacy effect and this kind of
thing where items which have been
remembered from the end of the list is
called the recency effect so what
psychologists when they did experiments
like this they found out that this kind
of effect was there and this kind of
effect basically means that there are
two memory stores these memory stores
the one which is storing this and the
one which is storing this I entirely
different the reason being that this
words are being remembered because
people rehearse so when a list is given
to you the top of the list items these
are being rehearsed these are being
repeated so item number one you first
learn it you repeat it then you learn
item two then you repeat item one and
then item two again you learn item
number three so you repeat item number
one item number two and you repeat item
number three then fourth item comes in
and then you repeat item number one two
three four so number of repetitions that
item number one gets is multiplied by
this factor and so they what happened is
in this primary if primacy effect have
is happening because of retrieval
whereas the
the effect is happening because people
tend to say when people were questioned
why do you remember list or what
happened actually when they remembered
items from the end of the list they
thought or they basically replied back
saying that they could still hear the
list they could still hear the words
ringing in the ears which basically
means that some kind of reasons you are
happening and so this proposal then says
that there are two different kinds of
memories one memory which stores
information which has been repeated and
another memory which stores information
which has not been repeated and since
these items have not been repeated at
all there's not been processed at all
they form another class or another
domain and these form another domain or
another class and so this is called the
short-term memory in this part is called
the long-term memory and this is one of
the basic demonstrations or one of the
basic experiments to show that a
structure of short-term and long-term
memory exists and which basically means
that memory is a multi-modal
store so another thing was found out
that to basically verify recency was
that another interesting thing was done
and what was done is that a list of
words
so whether recency happens because
people hear words or people hear the
feeding of your words whether that is
the reason for recency or not to test
this a list of words were read very very
fast so a list of words were read very
fast so that there was no time for
herself and so when there was no time
for yourself in those cases there was no
primacy effect but still recency effect
which means that people did remember
words toward the end of the list you do
here at time that something some
information it broadcasted very fast so
the end of the list information still
stays with you and that is what is
called recency but then if time enough
is given then you have both the primacy
in the recency effect coming in to this
and that basically is the idea of
something called the modal model of
memory or the idea that
there are different stores of memory and
so you can see as this particular graph
shows you this is about in memory system
so you see there is something called a
sense a register so stimuli from the
world it impinges on to this sensory
register it's a buffer and these are the
properties of it there is quick scan for
importance and precoding these are the
features of this kind of a thing the
information also in addition information
stays there for a very very brief period
rhymes or something around one second
and then the information here which is
stored is huge information so a huge
amount of information is stored here
also there is something called
short-term memory or presently in these
days it is called working memory so
we'll introduce you I'll introduce you
to the concept of what is working memory
and what is the difference between
working in sensory memory in the later
half of this chapter so the idea here is
that there is another store which is
called working memory and the features
of this store is coding rehearsal
recording and so on and so forth and
similarly there is a third store which
is called the long-term store which has
the features of processing storing it
recalling and so we will discuss this
whole idea of this is basically a quick
view of attrition - reference view of
idea of memory we'll come back to this
in in a while when we discuss the
occasion is different views about memory
so very briefly then if you look into
here we have something called sensory
register working memory and long-term
memory so then let's for the sake of
consistency start with the first type of
memory if let me explain you a little
bit about what it is how does it work
and what are the features of this and
then we'll quickly move into working
memory so in the presence section will
look into sensory register in working
memory in the next section we'll look
into long-term memory so let's quickly
go into what is sensory memory so what
is sensory memory most people generally
look at sensory memory as a record of
your percept let me give you an example
of what sensory
most of you have looked at displays or
your professors who are teaching you and
so suppose a professor is going ahead
and testing whether the slide projects
or not and so we quickly project
something and then takes it back you do
see some form of information or you do
see an image of the slide fading away
very fast this percept or this
particular feeling where you see images
fading very fast is what is called the
sensory memory and this is called this
is kind of an iconic sensory memory it's
visual in nature it is called an iconic
sensory memory so basically that is what
and so sensory memory is basically what
is equivalent to the percept or what we
will call it in terms of perception now
it's a record of a percept because it
refers to initial brief storage of
information
now you might retain after a quick
glance to an object's field so think of
looking or quickly glancing so quickly
glance towards the room and then move
back this just like something I did and
so when you start thinking about what
you saw you will see or you basically
what comes to mind is a fading image of
something which lies behind you and that
is what is called the sensory memory so
it's it's a memory which is there with
you for very very brief period of time
holds a lot of information but the
problem is that most information that it
holds is unprocessed form and so cannot
be processed and so attention and
perception decides whether information
passes from here to the next stages of
memory so sensory memory exists and
another interesting thing is that we
have different kind of sensory memory so
five different senses five different
sensory memory are there although the
sensory memory for taste is a little bit
gustatory memory is a little bit I would
say that fast but then most memories are
follow some kind of a rule or some kind
of inherent to each other and so for
visual we have the icon as a sensory
memory for a tree we have the Eco and
for touch we have the haptic and for the
sake of consistency for the sake of
easiness since this is not a very
extensive course so we will just look at
the icon and eco as a demonstration of
sensory memory so the first kind of
sensory memory that we have is called
the icon now icon is a sensory memory
for image or it is in an visual sensory
memory so then what is the icon so nicer
1967 called icon a very brief visual
memory it's a sensory memory storage
system for visual materials holding
information up to one second horizon as
I said sensory memories have very very
less time availability so of information
is available in sensory memories for
very brief period of time but it can
hold huge information a huge number of
information which comes up to the
perception process and so what happens
here is that most information is
available but since the time period for
which it is available is very less you
cannot look at it so one of the features
of an sensory memory is that it can hold
a lot of information for what for a very
very brief period of time and so the
demonstration that I just told you in
terms of looking at something a quick
glance on to something or quickly
glancing up or looking at something
which is presented for a very very brief
period of time the fading image is what
is an icon so icon is equivalent to that
fading image which which moves out which
leaves you and it fades away quickly
that is what icon is and that represents
the the iconic memory so the best
demonstration of iconic memory was done
using something called Sperling's
partial report technique in nineteen
60 and avirulent Carell ever ever back
in Carell showed that icons can be
raised by the stimuli presented
immediately after icon will will I'll
show you how this happens through
something called masking basically means
that an icon or a sensory memory or the
visual nature it is there it is in front
of you for a very brief period of time
but if something in the time period that
the icon is presented is something else
is presented a masking stimuli a stimuli
which goes ahead and hides this icon for
for a brief period or time and an
interference will happen and the icon
disappears but we'll come back to that
in a minute so then how do I test for
the presence of an icon how do I test
that iconic memory is present or not and
for this a very interesting experiment
was done by Sperling and what this
experiment was in very brief terms I
will try and explain you is called the
whole versus part report whole whole
versus partial report technique so the
demonstration looks something like this
in this demonstration what happens is
most subjects will come for this
demonstration first sees a central
fixation point like this so you this is
the central fixation point people are
asked subjects for doing the experiment
are asked to put their eye on to it and
then later on they see a matrix like
this we have which have a number of let
us return on to it and then a blank
slide is presented so what you really
have to do after that after the blank
side is presented a tone is presented
which cues you which tells you to report
or to write this particular thing back
so very simple experiment
you start with focusing on this
particular fixation point for 500
millisecond then a display like this is
presented to you for 50 millisecond then
a blank slide is presented for 0 to 5
seconds this is a masking stimuli this
is done so that
we are sure that more stimulus that the
image of the stimulus is is moved out of
your buffer is moved out of the sensory
buffer and then a tone is there to tell
you that you have to report it back so
there are two versions of it one is
called the whole report technique
knowing the whole report technique what
happened is that subjects we're asked to
report the whole of this and so what was
seen I'll quickly jump to the result so
what was seen is that when that was done
then people could add the best remember
the first row of letters or if they are
remembering it for this so maximum four
letters is what they remembered so in
this kind of demonstration people
remembered the four letters and by the
time they were up to the fifth letter
the image disappeared and that was what
was happening so by the time they were
to the fifth and six the whole image of
the four stimuli disappeared as I said
is a feeling experience the whole thing
faded and they could not report it back
so the question was can this be helped
can this be improved and so something
called a partial report technique was
designed now it is just an addition into
it and so what was the partial report
technique the same kind of structure was
used for doing the experiment and the
only thing here was that three different
tools were used so this was a high tone
this was a middle tone and this was a
low tone so three different kind of
tones were used and now the subjects
interested in were instructed in this
way if there is a high tone you have to
just remember the first row if there is
a middle tone you have to remember the
second row and if there is a third is a
low tone you have to remember the third
row so retrieve back the items from the
third row what do you think happened in
a situation like this subjects very
accurately remembered the letters they
were very accurate in remembering so
when a high tone was presented they very
accurately remembered all the four
letters it basically means that if the
first thing that it's it's
is that the sensory memory stays for a
very very brief period of time and all
the information of sensory memory is
available too but what happens is the
storage you have so two basic proposals
of sensory memory that it can huge a lot
of infirmity it can store a lot of
information but for a brief period of
time and so we tested both of them here
the thing is that if I present a low
tone and the same image you are able to
go
remember back the third row it basically
means that the whole of the slide is
available to you but what happens is
when you start to reading it back it
disappears so the thing is when a
technique was used where you have to
just remember one part of it you were
able to do it which basically means that
the whole of slide information the
informations on the slide the whole of
slide was available to people and what
why they were not able to complete the
whole report technique is because they
were trying to read everything so one
problem the other problem solved is that
time duration now the thing is if cue
was given a particular mid high medium
low kind of a cue was given that time
was very less and people were able to
accurately finish it so then but then
when a whole report technique was used
since that time period since the time
that you require to move from one word
to write these words we're constantly
increasing so you were actually
forgetting and so this is a very clever
demonstration or a very good
demonstration of something called the
iconic memory now the thing is what kind
of cues can be used so here I have used
or here in the classic experiment
Sperling has used something called the
tone cue so the question was to find out
whether this iconic memory the icons
what is the nature of the icons so is
icon does icon contain categorized
information which means that what is the
level of information which is stored in
the icon and so to test that cueing was
done first by something called physical
properties so brightness color these
kind of cues were use this kind of
factors were used for cueing this kind
of a whole report and partial report so
with physical properties it was
very easy but then if people were asked
to report back from this kind of a
structure from this kind of a slide
whether they saw vowel or whether they
saw consonants into this structure
people were not able to attain this task
or finish this task which basically
proves that on the information which is
available here is at the very very
physical level it is highly unprocessed
and so this kind of a meaning related
thing can be generated cannot be
generated out of it so basically what
you can do is that this kind of
categorization cannot be used or the
category based distinction cannot be
used for cueing another thing another
interesting thing was that can people
also generate meaning from it and so as
I explained that cannot be done so then
what kind of cues can be used so very
basic cues can can be used for example
you have brightness you have tone you
have intensity of the stimulus and these
can cue people for the whole report in
part report technique but then things
like categorization if you see a vowel
reported so report all the work for
example report all the vowels that you
see here in this that is the question
which is given to you it's a dual task
first of all you have to remember what
know whatever well is and then
categorizes and later on report it
so if that kind of a task is given to
you where it has certain rules certain
kind of meaning information attached to
it that information was very difficult
to access that kind of task was very
difficult to access and and accomplished
by get accomplished ly done by this
particular thing also one interesting
thing if you are interested is is to
know that need and super event in 2003
they found out that newer studies say
that people are able to prop provide
category information
this kind of a display which means that
category information can also be
extracted from these displays so very
recent study and then the time course of
an icon is not once again it is handed
and not say 100 milliseconds it is 150
to 200 milliseconds that is how icon is
basically present in order it is
available so let's quickly then look
into a counter part of the icon the
auditory icon as I would say it is
called the Eco so Eco is a contra is is
a is a kind of sensory memory of the
auditory dimension and so nicer 1967
called it the Eco so very interesting
experiment intelligent experiment was
name done by someone called Maury Bates
and Barnett in 1965 to show what an eye
equal is so what they did was they
presented subject with something called
for eared listening task which is
similar to dichotic listening task so
subject was centered or subjects were
made to hear to the two years four
different channels of audio information
and so these information and this is
similar to Spelling's tasks so these
information was coming from the right
rough forward the left forward the right
backward and left backward so similar to
this think of it in this way so here
what happens is that a person sits here
and so he is wearing an earphone and so
this is my person who's sitting here and
this is the headphone that he is wearing
so he hears two tones one is forward
right forward right forward left for
channel so estrella
a stereo mixing equipment was soon used
and this is backward left and this is
backward right so he is you is hearing
these four tones now the thing is in the
whole report technique the subject was
asked to report whatever he heard from
all these different different so one
string was presented here one string
of information represented here one
string here one string here so in the
whole technique the person has to report
everything that he hears from four
different so a four channel system was
there where is in the partial we put
technique what the person had to do was
to report from one of these channels
whether it is for forward right forward
left and so on and so forth so how do
you do it the experiment design in such
a way that this person is actually
hearing this for different different
sound and then in front of him are four
bulbs which represent front right front
left back right and braclet and so one
of when one of these bulbs this is the
cueing method one of these bulb
eliminates this person has to tell what
he heard from the forward right or say
backward left so the elimination of this
bulb will tell you to attend to this
particular channel and report back what
you hear and so Darwin theory and
Crowder 1972 they replay replicated
Moyes experiment with better controls
and found a much smaller partial to put
advantage so in this case also the
experimenters found a large large
benefit for the partial report case then
for the whole report case and so some
facts which were revealed was the equate
memory has larger capacity than iconic
memory and so this is one interesting
thing that the echo stores more
information than the icon the equals
stores more information one reason could
be plausible reason is that echo is a
single channel system so the words have
to be stayed for more period of time and
if I write something let's say I write
on a piece of paper round goes to
village this if I show you for 100
different millisecond
you will be able to understand but until
I unless I spell the whole sentence
round goes to the village you will not
have an idea of what is happening who is
Ram where is he going what kind of a
thing is there so the whole sentence has
to be played and so visuals auditory
systems store more information because
it has to it's a single channel system
to go from one word to the other word to
the other word to the other word for
making meaning and so that could be the
reason why it stores more information
also eco eco scan last 20 seconds longer
than icons that is what it is and so the
so if icon stays for 100 millisecond eco
can stay for 120 milli second or maybe
hand if eCos can if icons can stay 450
millisecond they equals nearly about 200
milliseconds so then information in the
eco is huge it is unprocessed like the
icon but the idea is that it is better
or it stores more information than the
icon and so this is the next type of our
second type of sensory memory which is
there and this is a demonstration of the
Darvin turvy encoder experiment where
you have left right and so you you do
see that these are the words which have
been presented these are the items which
are presented to different different
through different different channels on
the headphone and pair and this personal
sitting here has to report so sensory
memory can currently then what is the
definition of current sensory memory can
para chronically it can be described
through these things first sensory
memories are modality-specific
which means that there is a memory for
visual that there is a memory for haptic
senses there is a memory for auditory
senses and so on and so forth also the
capacities are huge but the length of
time the information can be stored is
quite slow so huge capacity but smaller
time so information stays for very very
brief period of time also the
information can be stored up appears
unprocessed so as we saw that category
tasks or several other tasks which
require which I if given two subjects to
perform on to the icon of the eco they
are not able to do it which means that
information is available but it is not
processed in any way so it's like simple
perceptual information unprocessed the
perceptual information so then let's
look at some examples of what this is so
for example in visual sensory memory it
could be that quickly take your hand and
move it in front of you very quick once
you do that you can still see your hand
moving back and that is visual memory in
auditory with your hands beat a quick
rhythm on the desk you will hear after
eco and that is wall is a equate memory
in terms of tectile memory rub the palms
of your hand along a horizontal surface
and even when this is done when you are
finished with it you will still have
some kind of haptic sensation a sharp
edge in in this case on the edge of the
desk and that is what is the sensory so
we'll then let's break the class here
for today and we'll continue with other
types of memory so we just see in
today's class what are other that why is
memory important what are the different
types of memory and we have evaluated
just one type of memory also the
existence of something called a single
and multiple store system of memory so
in this part of present section we just
saw two different kind of sensory
memories we'll continue the discussion
in the next class thank you
[Music]
you